Zookeer fundamentals
--------------------
	Apache Zookeeper is a high-performance coordination server for distributed applications. It exposes common services --such as naming and configuration management, synchronization,
and group services -- in a simple interface, relieving the use from the need to program from scratch. It comes with off-the-shelf support for implementing consensus, group management,
leader election, and presence protocols.


Introduction
-------------

  Zookeeper is a building block for distributed systems. When desigining a distributed system, there si typeicalla need for designing and developing some coordination services

 1.Name service -  A name service is a service that maps a name to some information assosicated with that name.
   A telephone directory is a name service that maps that name of person to his/her telephone number. In the same way, a DNS service is a name service that maps a domain name to an IP address.
In distributed system, you may want to keep a track of which servers or services are up and running and look up their status by name.
ZooKeeper exposes  a simple interace to do that. 
A name service can also be extended to a group membership service by means of which you can obtain information pertaining to the group associated with the entity whose name is being looked up.

 2.Locking - To alolow for serialized access to a shared resources in your distributed system, you may need to implement distributed mutexes. 
Zookeeper provides for an easy way for you to implement them.

3.Synchronization - Hand in hand with distributed mutexes is the need for synchronizing access to shared resources.
Wheteher implementing a producer-consumern queue or a barrier, Zookeeper provides a simple interface to implement that. 

4.Configuration management - You can use Zookeeper to centrally store and mange the configuration of your distributed system. 
This means that any new nodes joining will pick up the up-to-date centralized configuration from Zookeeper as soon as they join the system.

5.Leader election - — Your distributed system may have to deal with the problem of nodes going

down, and you may want to implement an automatic fail-over strategy. ZooKeeper provides

off-the-shelf support for doing so via leader election



Keeper, while being a coordination service for distributed systems, is a distributed application

on its own. ZooKeeper follows a simple client-server model where clients are nodes (i.e.,

machines) that make use of the service, and servers are nodes that provide the service. A

collection of ZooKeeper servers forms a ZooKeeper ensemble. At any given time, one ZooKeeper

client is connected to one ZooKeeper server. Each ZooKeeper server can handle a large number

of client connections at the same time. Each client periodically sends pings to the ZooKeeper

server it is connected to let it know that it is alive and connected. The ZooKeeper server in

question responds with an acknowledgment of the ping, indicating the server is alive as well. When

the client doesn't receive an acknowledgment from the server within the specified time, the client

connects to another server in the ensemble, and the client session is transparently transferred

over to the new ZooKeeper server.
 


Client-server architecture of ZooKeeper
--------------------------------------

ZooKeeper has a file system-like data model composed of znodes. Think of znodes (ZooKeeper

data nodes) as files in a traditional UNIX-like system, except that they can have child nodes.

Another way to look at them is as directories that can have data associated with themselves. Each

of these directories is called a znode. Figure 2 shows a diagram representing the same hierarchy

as sports team in two cities

The znode hierarchy is stored in memory within each of the ZooKeeper servers. This allows for

scalable and quick responses to reads from the clients. Each ZooKeeper server also maintains

a transaction log on the disk, which logs all write requests. This transaction log is also the most

performance critical part of ZooKeeper because a ZooKeeper server must sync transactions

to disk before it returns a successful response. The default maximum size of data that can be

stored in a znode is 1 MB. Consequently, even though ZooKeeper presents a file system-like

hierarchy, it shouldn't be used as a general-purpose file system. Instead, it should only be used as

a storage mechanism for the small amount of data required for providing reliability, availability, and

coordination to your distributed application.

When a client requests to read the contents of a particular znode, the read takes place at the

server that the client is connected to. Consequently, since only one server from the ensemble

is involved, reads are quick and scalable. However, for writes to be completed successfully, a

strict majority of the nodes of the ZooKeeper ensemble are required to be available. When the

ZooKeeper service is brought up, one node from the ensemble is elected as the leader. When

a client issues a write request, the connected server passes on the request to the leader. This

leader then issues the same write request to all the nodes of the ensemble. If a strict majority of

the nodes (also known as a quorum) respond successfully to this write request, the write request is

considered to have succeeded. A successful return code is then returned to the client who initiated

the write request. If a quorum of nodes are not available in an ensemble, the ZooKeeper service is

nonfunctional.



	
